>> Richard Feldman: Now let's talk
about authentication and JavaScript.
And for that, we're gonna go to the code.
All right,
>> Richard Feldman: So
we've talked about a couple of
different sources of caching.
Another really common source of caching is
authentication, so we go to the server.
When you log in, you type in user name and
password, the server says,
great, I accept that
authentication information.
I will give you back some sort of token
that will identify you from now on.
We want to cash that.
It's very important that we cash that
because if we did not, once again,
every single time the user wanted to do
anything that required authentication,
they would have to type in their
username and password again.
That would be a miserable user experience.
Much, much, better to actually
cache that token locally, so
that we can just send it back
to the server and say yep,
I still am who I said I was earlier when
I actually typed in those credentials.
So, as we've seen
elsewhere in the workshop.
The way that we do this
is with this cred value.
This is the thing that we sort of cache
in our model as the source of truth for
where those credentials live.
But, this is actually not a cache of
the credentials that are in the database.
The database can have a log of
which sessions are allowed,
which tokens are valid, and
it can invalidate those at any time.
They can say, you know what?
This user's account was compromised.
We got a support email from them.
We're deactivating all their tokens and
clearing them out.
And now, none of them work anymore.
And that token is not necessarily
the ones that are on model,
the tokens that are on our models
actually cache of another cache
which is the one that's
resisted on the browser.
So the way that this works in
this particular application,
there's lots of different
ways to authentication but
the way that we do it is we
store it in local storage.
And the code for that looks like this.
So we have inside index.html,
we have Elm.Main.init.
And we pass in flags of
localStorage.session.
We just store it directly in localStorage.
A lot of different ways you could do this.
If you do it with cookies, you don't
actually need to write any JavaScript or
any other code to persist this stuff.
And then if we listen to
app.ports.storeSession, whatever
Elm sends from a port, like after the user
logs in it says, hey, we got a session,
then we put that into local storage, then
we'll come back to this line in a second.
And we also have a separate one
that adds an event listener for
whenever a storage event happens.
That is to say,
this fires when a different tab modifies
local storage for the same domain.
Then we check to see if this
was a change to the session.
If so, then we wanna send this into
Elm and say hey, one of these or
your tabs, did something with the session.
And you ought to know about that.
So the classic example,
this is logging out.
So let's say I have three tabs open and
I log in on all three of them.
And on one of them, I log out and
then I forget about the other two.
If we don't have some logic like this,
I can potentially come back
to the other two tabs later.
It appears to be, I've logged in,
it's got my profile picture in the upper
right corner, everything looks fine.
And then as soon as I go to do
anything I start getting errors,
because I've actually logged out, my
token has been invalidated on the server,
it's no longer going to be accepted,
because I pressed the log out button.
But unfortunately these tabs
didn't know about that,
because their caches had become stale.
This is a way of at least removing
that middle layer of caching,
that persistent layer in the browser such
that every single time this changes in
another tab, we immediately update
our cache in the model and say, yeah,
we got a new information
about the session.
This is the new source of truth.
So we sort of have three tiers here.
Ultimate source of truth is once
again the database on the server and
then inside local storage we have a cached
token from that which can get stale.
And then on top of that,
we have our cache on the model,
which is the value that we actually
use to attach HTTP requests.
So this code right here along with right
after, we'll get back in a second.
This code right here,
the primary parser of that, is to make our
cache in the model as unstale as possible.
Now, it's important to think about these
in terms of these caching dependencies and
what the function of these is.
Because it'd be pretty easy to say,
if you can only think about it,
it's like, well I just didn't
write that code, yeah, why bother?
Yeah, I mean, I've got it right here,
I'm saving it in the model, it's gonna
be in the model, it's gonna be accurate.
But the reality is,
it's not necessarily gonna be accurate.
The model can be stale
relative to the cache,
which itself can be stale
relative to the server.
Now again we can't really
do much about if the server
gets out of sync with our local storage,
but we can do something about our model.
So right here, I am consciously
making the decision to say,
I am aware that my model is in
a cache of what's in local storage.
That should be the single source of truth,
at least once we get to the client.
So anytime I have a disagreement
about what's in local storage,
local storage is right I'm
just gonna agree with it.
So that's why I have this
logic setup this way.
And this has one other implication,
which is that I actually don't have any
logic in the application to say set
the session directly on the model.
The only way I change this session on the
model is through this stuff right here,
is coming from local storage.
To the point where, after we say,
hey we just logged in.
I got a new session token.
Hey, go put this in local storage.
After we store it in local storage,
the next thing we do is we
send it back into the port.
And say hey,
go through the normal process of
pretending that we got this from
some other local storage events and
send it through the usual pathways
to store and update it in the model.
And the reason I'm doing it that way is
because I don't actually want to have any
code where the model is directly
setting the session because that means
that's just a source of my cash
potentially being out of date.
With this cache that's just
a bug waiting to happen.
So even though it seems a little silly,
like hey I've already got this data why
don't I just write it down, I got it.
I would rather maintain the variant
that this is the source of truth.
I only ever get information from here.
Which means I can rely on knowing that if
nothing else I'm at least as up to date as
this cache is or
at least I'm trying as hard as I
can not to be out of date with it